# Titanic Competition Reflection

## Activity Description
Going into this competition, I wanted to better understand the fundamentals of machine learning. When I first started learning about AI, I skipped past fundamental concepts like logistic regression and random forests, instead opting to focus more on deep learning models like computer vision and natural language processing. Doing a simple yet challenging competition like the Kaggle competition Titanic - Machine Learning from Disaster helped me better understand the fundamentals. Going into this, I expected it to be relatively simple to produce a deliverable due to my background knowledge in deep learning algorithms. It was relatively easy to produce a deliverable as there are pretrained algorithms that work very well with this task; initially I got baseline benchmarks and then went through and fine-tuned the model as well as tried new feature engineering techniques to get a better submission score. I didn’t find it very hard to produce a deliverable at first since there were a lot of open-source models fit for this task. However, after submitting my initial baseline I realized that producing a competitive submission can be very difficult. Training the model to make an accurate prediction wasn’t hard, but improving the score required me to be more thoughtful about technical decisions like preprocessing.

## Technical Decisions
From a technical perspective, I first decided to start with a simple baseline including multiple models and then improved them incrementally. The models I chose to use were logistic regression, random forests, and gradient boosting. I initially processed the data in a basic way: cleaning it, handling missing values, and encoding categorical variables. But after seeing my model results stagnate, I decided to move into more advanced feature engineering techniques to improve performance. Instead of relying on basic cleaned columns, I considered things such as family size, if a passenger was alone, cabin deck information, and more informed age imputation based on related passenger groups. This competition helped me realize that it is not just model training that is important for good performance, but also the quality of the dataset.

## Contributions
I completed this activity alone, so all the contributions were my own. All the data preprocessing was done by me as well as training and evaluating the models. Working alone allowed me to justify each decision myself, which helped me understand the task much deeper than if I had worked in a team.

## Quality Assessment
Overall, I would say I did well in this competition. I was able to improve my initial score by 2 percentage points, and this was due to my more advanced feature engineering techniques. I treated the activity as a learning process, submitting multiple submissions instead of stopping after the first successful submission. Doing this over again, I would focus more on data preprocessing initially rather than model tweaking. Also, I would like to see how deep learning models can possibly improve my submission scores compared to more simple machine learning techniques, if they can at all.